My earliest memories are from Sikkim, where I remember playing sports with other kids. - that's where it end.
Fast forward to Bhopal, I remember having the luxury of time and playing with stones, fireflies, being with Sony.
- Growing up in a sheltered army space, engaging in a consistent rhythm of school, playground, home, tv, being loved as a child hands down will be the most idyllic environment I ever have been.
- Knowing that I didn't have everything in the world but apart from having momentary desires for toys, I never wanted anything more.
- Somehow, I was good at everything that I tried - in some circles better than most - but I never had desire to be the best. Being natural at sports and study while being in an environment that never demanded more -- my parents whose background limited the worldview they had also never pushed me towards anything except when I'm not getting better marks than what my sister and brother got when they were my age.
- Being sick with the auto immune and other 
- Who else had an influence on me? 
	- Family members especially moms and dads family. They have always treated us someone special mostly because of being good in studies. How does that shape my own reflection of myself. Being respected almost universally in family and from your friends must account got something, but what is that? 
	- Has I always avoided circles where I'm not the best and perhaps sub-standard and how do I react in these situations? Does it hurt me more because I have internalise others overestimation of myself. Is that why I pushes myself to go for things that are not common and continue to make me special? Even when things I like become popular I somehow start to develop an aversion of them. 
	- Another way to formulate this conception - I do feel good when I have been universally labelled as someone who's smart and intelligent in their context , while I always feel inadequate and try so hard to assume positions or persue things which will continue my status as the special or better one? Is this what has driven a lot of my actions - choosing CMU, lying about my age to people, not being so forthcoming initially that I'm going to do arrange marriage, etc., etc. Also, always trying to be cooler in my actions and interests and even conflating them just so I can maintain my status as the special one. 
	- In most situations this makes me feel good, however  it does put more undue pressure on me. The question is that whether it's healthy. 
	- I do think it's healthy for my overall intellectual ambition, but it makes me wanna just continue doing things for the sake of maintains my "exceptional" status. Rather than engaging with the activities and knowledge that I'm doing.
	- I want to get over this notion of myself being better than the common man and using that as a motivation to pursue my intellectual and other ambitions. Rather, I will engage with the things for the thing in itself.
	- *Insight: Almost every interest you have should be engaged on should be for its own merit, not because people will say that **You are awesome** *
	- *Insight: another aspect where the social nature of human beings forces him to truly be at peace with himself*