1. Because a significant number of advancements in tech are not developed in an Indian context, when deployed in India, it can have negative consequences, spread asymmetrically when adapted to Indian society. 
2.  The prime example of this is the Bhopal Gas Tragedy, where the Union Carbide plant, carrying deadly methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas was stored in the center of Bhopal, in a population heavy area. 
3.   When the gas leaked, the direction of the wind directed it to some of the poorest areas in the city, to J. P. Nagar, located just across the street from the plant and inhabited mostly by Muslims and low-caste Hindus. Thousands of Bhopal’s citizens died instantly or within days of the accident, blinded, choked, and suffocated by the acutely toxic fumes. Hundreds of thousands more were injured, many suffering intense physical and mental distress years, even decades, after the accident. 
4.    There are multiple reasons why this was made worse because of advancements in tech not being local. The victims’ self-knowledge, whether scientific or social, found no traction in official medical record keeping or in courts of law. Their experience highlights the structural asymmetries of technology transfer across national boundaries. Union Carbide’s technology of production moved from West to East with little hindrance and, in retrospect, with insufficient regard to conditions in Bhopal. By contrast, India’s attempts to transfer legal accountability back to the exporting country proved essentially impossible, as American courts insisted that claims be resolved by Indian judges under Indian law. 
5.     Globalization has the potential to be extremely asymmetrical in its flows and frictions. The government’s class action on behalf of Bhopal’s victims never went to trial. 
6.      There is tremendous value in adapting tech to local contexts. While technology has the potential to make a better world, we need to make sure that its benefits are spread across in an equitable manner.