1.  Whether real or virtual, networks have a fundamental economic characteristic: the value of connecting to a network depends on the number of other people already connected to it. And the golden rule of networks is that: other things being equal, it's better to be connected to a bigger network than a smaller one.
2.  The notion of positive feedback is crucial to understanding the economics of information technology. Positive feedback makes the strong get stronger and the weak get weaker, leading to extreme outcomes. When two or more firms compete for a market where there is strong positive feedback, only one may emerge as the winner. Economists say that such a market is tippy, meaning that it can tip in favor of one player or another. In its most extreme form, positive feedback can lead to a winner-take-all market in which a single firm or technology vanquishes all others
3.  Positive-feedback systems follow a predictable pattern. Again and again, we see adoption of new technologies following an S-shaped curve with the three phases: (1) flat during launch, then (2) a steep rise during takeoff as positive feedback kicks in, followed by (3) leveling off as saturation is reached.
4.  Suppose that a company is just becoming popular with the customers - it is difficult to imagine which way it will evolve - either enter into a virtuous cycle of expanding user base or a vicious cycle, spiralling down to its demise. If consumers expect the product to become popular, a bandwagon will form, the virtuous cycle will begin, and consumers' expectations will prove correct. But if consumers expect the product to flop, it will lack momentum, the vicious cycle will take over, and again consumers' expectations will prove correct. The beautiful if frightening implication: success and failure are driven as much by consumer expectations and luck as by the underlying value of the product. A nudge in the right direction, at the right time, can make all the difference. Marketing strategy designed to influence consumer expectations is critical in network markets. The aura of inevitability is a powerful weapon when demand-side economies of scale are strong. 
5.  Both demand-side economies of scale and supply-side economies of scale have been around for a long time. But the combination of the two that has arisen in many information technology industries is new. The result is a "double whammy" in which growth on the demand side both reduces cost on the supply side and makes the product more attractive to other users—accelerating the growth in demand even more. The result is especially strong positive feedback, causing entire industries to be created or destroyed far more rapidly than during the industrial age.
6.  Metcalfe's law (or rule of thumb, really!) states that the value of a network is proportional to the square of the number of connected users of the system (_n_2).
7.  Network externalities make it virtually impossible for a small network to thrive. But every new network has to start from scratch. The challenge to companies seeking to introduce new but incompatible technology into the market is to build network size by overcoming the collective switching costs—that is, the combined switching costs of all users.
8.  Indirect network effects refer to the benefit that one side of the market derives from being on the platform and depends on the number of people on the other side of the market that they can access. For indirect network effects to exist, a market necessarily has to have more than one side to it. These indirect network effects can also have strong feedback loops, which reinforce the power of the network effects. 
9.  In the online economy, the network effects are accentuated by the use of data and machine learning algorithms. Data network effects occur when your product, generally powered by machine learning, becomes smarter as it gets more data from your users. In short, “the more users use your product, the more data they contribute; the more data they contribute, the smarter your product becomes (which can mean anything from core performance improvements to predictions, recommendations, personalization, etc.); the smarter your product is, the better it serves your users and the more likely they are to come back often and contribute more data – and so on and so forth. 
10.  The direct and indirect network effects that are inherent to platforms can create significant entry barriers for rival platforms. Acquiring a critical mass of users on platforms is a key challenge for emerging platforms. This is because emerging platforms and rivals have to scale up on both sides of the platforms in a rapid fashion in order to succeed. This would require significant paid up capital and deep pockets, which small start-ups may not possess. 
11.  There are two basic approaches for dealing with the problem of consumer inertia: the evolution strategy of compatibility and the revolution strategy of compelling performance. These strategies reflect an underlying tension (and trade-offs) when the forces of innovation meet up with network externalities: is it better to wipe the slate clean and come up with the best product possible (revolution) or to give up some performance to ensure compatibility and thus ease consumer adoption (evolution)?
12.  The evolution strategy, which offers consumers an easy migration path, centers on reducing switching costs so that consumers can gradually try your new technology. In virtual networks, this strategy of offering consumers a migration path requires an ability to achieve compatibility with existing products. For this, the company must first overcome technical and legal barriers: 
    1.  The technical obstacles you'll face have to do with the need to develop a technology that is at the same time compatible with, and yet superior to, existing products. Only in this way can you keep customers' switching costs low, by offering backward compatibility, and still offer improved performance. Usually, however, providing backward compatibility comes with reduced performance. 
    2.  The second kind of obstacle you'll find as you build a migration path is legal and contractual: you need to have or obtain the legal right to sell products that are compatible with the established installed base of products. Incumbents with intellectual property rights over an older generation of technology may have the ability to unilaterally blockade a migration path.
13.  The revolution strategy involves brute force: offer a product so much better than what people are using that enough users will bear the pain of switching to it. Usually, this strategy works by first attracting customers who care the most about performance and working down from there to the mass market.
14.  Firms introducing new products and technologies also face a fundamental trade-off between openness and control. Technologies that are made open are more likely to gain popularity, but the rewards from such success are far greater for an innovator that can retain control over the use and design of its technology

## Readings
https://shala.takshashila.org.in/learningunit/view?sid=501493&vid=504317&cid=504309
https://kk.org/newrules/
[New Rules for the New Economy](https://kk.org/newrules/index.php) #bookrecommendation 