# Networked Protests HongKong

This paper examined the 2019-20 protest movement in Hong Kong within the context of the RNS framework. It argued that the movement, which began to derail proposed amendments to the extradition legislation, is, in fact, a product of underlying fissures over political identity and autonomy between a significant community of Hong Kongers and the Chinese state. Hong Kong’s thriving Internet ecosystem and hyper-connected society enabled the development and expansion of networked communities around these issues, fuelling sustained, leaderless mobilisation. The demonstrators used public networking platforms for fundraising and narrative contestation, while encrypted services were used for planning and coordination. This is indicative of the Chinese state’s increasing capacity to disrupt digital services and carry out surveillance activities. Such enhanced capacity, along with a consideration of economic costs, were perhaps critical factors in the HKSAR government’s not to shut down the Internet. Yet, these actions constitute one part of the overall response, which entailed the use of several different instruments. Broadly, Chinese authorities responded to a question of political legitimacy using economic and security tools. They deployed coercive legal instruments, violence, and economic incentives to create and leverage fissures in society while also engaging in extensive narrative contestation. What’s interesting to note is that despite repeated threats, the central leadership resisted the temptation to deploy the armed forces on the streets of Hong Kong. This suggests a calculated use of force, keeping in mind broader economic and political costs. In essence, considering Hong Kong’s unique circumstances, the Chinese state’s response has been rooted in a strategy of attrition.