      

1.  When choosing terms and conditions, recognize the basic trade-off: more liberal terms and conditions will tend to raise the value of your product to consumers but may reduce the number of units sold. 
2.  Site licenses and other group-pricing schemes are a valuable tool for managing terms and conditions.
3.  For digital content, production is reproduction. Once produced, software can be shared with minimal costs regardless of distances or borders. It is the price of making the first copy that matters. 
4.  Information that is timely, or that people tire of quickly, is less susceptible to illicit copying. This is only because if people are not consuming pieces of information (because of time sensitive content or otherwise), there is no benefit to copying it. 
5.  Free samples of information are effective for two reasons: (1) consumers need samples to see what it is you are selling (the experience good effect) and (2) it costs you almost nothing to provide these extra bits (the zero marginal cost effect). An increasing number of players, big and small, provide free samples to consumers. This includes Microsoft (LinkedIn Premium), Netflix, Amazon Prime to pdf and video converters. Once a consumer has a taste of the service being provided, they have a better understanding of the product. They then also have more incentive to stay premium and in some cases, not revert to the basic package.
6.  You do need to make sure that free samples direct customers back to you. An increasing amount of software is substitutable. It is up to the company to make sure that their product is different enough for consumers to come back after the free sample expires. For instance, it is up to Netflix to make sure that consumers keep subscribe after the free trial. If other content providers such as Prime Video, HBO Go, and Hotstar might offer better prices, it is up to Netflix to have eye catching original content that is not available elsewhere for a better price. 
7.  Digital technology is uniquely potent precisely because it sharply lowers both copying and distribution costs. Other industries such as automobile manufacturing have to bear the cost of building each additional unit, regardless of how low it might be because of scale. This involves acquiring raw materials, manufacturing, assembling and so on. Software once produced, does not need to be built again to be shared. Updates as well can be shared without substantial costs that other industries might have to face. 
8.  Reduced distribution costs offer you a significant advantage by allowing you to promote your products more effectively. Because of minimal distribution costs, marketing becomes cost effective. It requires hiring of lesser people in the supply chain and helps achieve volume without scale. Campaigns such as #shotoniPhone go as far as to crowdsource marketing material that is distributed through twitter, online ads as well as billboards. 
9.  Owners of intellectual property can overcome the threats raised by digital reproduction just as they have overcome the threats raised by other reproduction technologies in the past. 
10.  The trick is to break your product up into components; some you give away, others you sell. The parts that are given away are the advertisements—the infomercials—for the parts you sell. Companies around the world utilise this to great effect. Hotstar in India as well as Spotify globally are prime examples. Bits of the product are free to access. Such as music with ads, and without the ability to play specific tracks from an album. Or having a significant portion of content accessible for free but keeping applying subscription pricing with higher demand.